Can't see.
Hmm? This the light?
No, wait!
[SHION]
Leave 'em off, Kei.
What if somebody at the festival
looks our way and
sees the lights?
Oh, right. Sorry.
[TAKANO]
I wouldn't worry.
Everyone there is watching
Rika's dance right now,
so I don't think
they'll notice us.
This is the guardian deity
of Hinamizawa.
Lord Oyashiro.
[KEIICHI]
So that's him?
[SHION]
But it's much more ornate
than the one at the shrine.
[TAKANO] The tools are
about what I expected,
but I never thought that there
would be so many of them!
[KEIICHI]
What you expected?
These religious relics look
more like construction tools.
[TAKANO chuckles]
You might not quite
understand, Mister Maebara.
Oh. Okay?
Let me enlighten you.
Perhaps this old folk story
will clarify things a bit.
[TAKANO] Long, long ago,
hidden among the mountains,
there was a swamp so deep,
the people of the
nearby village believed
the bottom lay in
the depths of hell itself.
They called it Onigafuchi.
Hold on.
So that nearby village
was Hinamizawa, right?
What a smart boy you are.
Onigafuchi.
"The Demon's abyss"
is a pretty ominous name.
From what I could find,
they changed the village's
name during the Meiji era.
[TAKANO] One day, it's said,
a horde of demons rose
from deep in the swamp
and invaded the village.
Slaughtering the
people without mercy.
The villagers tried
in vain to escape,
but they could neither flee
nor fight, only cower and hide.
At last, when
they'd all but given up.
Lord Oyashiro, their guardian
god, descended unto them.
So that's it. Lemme guess.
Oyashiro swoops
down from the heavens,
slays all the demons
and saves the day?
Such a boyish
way of looking at life.
Not every problem can be
solved by slaying things, Kei.
[TAKANO] And Lord Oyashiro
is the furthest thing
from a violent deity.
He's a perfect guardian.
A kind and benevolent god.
In fact, his loving
nature was so strong
that even the demons
couldn't resist its radiance.
They prostrated themselves
before Lord Oyashiro,
and he rewarded them
with human forms,
allowing them to live
in harmony with the villagers.
Over the course of generations,
the humans and demons
intermingled
and their blood mixed.
So the village carried
on existing in secret,
and the people at
the foot of the mountain
worshipped the
villagers as gods.
Man, that is one weird story.
[TAKANO chuckles]
Oh, indeed! But that
was just the prologue.
Then, things got
really interesting.
You see, the demons
of Onigafuchi Swamp.
They were man‐eaters
who had originally attacked
the village in search of food.
Even in their human bodies,
the blood they passed down
was still demonic.
It's only natural
that the villagers
with demon blood also hungered
for the flesh of humans, right?
Soon after,
the people of other nearby
villages started disappearing.
It was said they'd
been demoned away.
Demoned away?
A convenient place
to put the blame.
It was really a
series of kidnappings
by the people of Onigafuchi.
Snatching up outsiders
to be sacrificed.
[KEIICHI]
How's that different
from what the
demons did to them?
Where was their kind,
benevolent god?
Heh!
Lord Oyashiro was perfectly
aware of this practice.
The villagers
didn't simply kidnap
whomever they happened across.
They would only take those
whom Lord Oyashiro had
deemed worthy sacrifices.
And once those unfortunate
subjects had been procured,
the villagers would set
about preparing their feast
for the hideous ritual
that would become known
as "Watanagashi."
Watanagashi?
But they named the village's
end‐of‐winter festival
"Watanagashi" after the cotton
drifting ritual, didn't they?
Think, Kei.
That first part,
"Wata." can mean "guts."
[gasps]
That's true.
Now that I think about it.
I've heard
fish guts called that.
[gasps]
But then, that means.
[TAKANO]
Oh yes.
I can see those gears
turning, Mister Maebara.
Huh?
[TAKANO]
Watanagashi as we know it
is an early summer
festival held in June,
where villagers drift futon
stuffing down the river,
but not back then.
It was a long night of terror
for the people of
these mountains.
As they wondered who
Hinamizawa's villagers
would take for their meal.
You liar!
Setting cotton pieces adrift.
There has to be another
meaning, doesn't there?
[KEIICHI]
Who the hell says?
A futon's a futon!
But for argument's sake, let's
assume it serves as a symbol.
If that were true,
what would Rika really
be doing in her dance?
[gasps]
How would I know?
Come on.
I haven't seen it because
I came out here instead!
Shhh!
Easy, Kei. No need to get upset.
[TAKANO]
The hoe Rika uses for her dance.
The one with the ornate blade.
Huh?!
I had figured all of these
were just weird farm tools.
You mean they're
for chopping up people?
[TAKANO] More precisely,
they're for butchering people.
These are all utensils
built for food preparation.
[laughs]
Ms. Takano.
This is the first
he's heard of this.
Please give Kei a little time.
[TAKANO]
Apologies.
I truly thought boys your age
tended to like gruesome
horror stories like this one.
[sighs]
Jeez, Shion, be careful!
[SHION]
I swear, that wasn't my fault!
I barely even touched it!
Settle down, now, children.
Uh.
So, is everything okay in here?
Well, it doesn't appear
to be a fresh break,
so I would say you're off the
hook for that this time, Shion.
[sighs]
This should be all right.
Now, Jiro,
don't tell me you came in
out of concern
and not curiosity.
[TOMITAKE laughs]
Sorry, but it's true.
Part of me was screaming,
"Don't do it!"
Anyway, everyone's making
their way to the river.
That's bad.
I would like to get
some pictures of all this.
Would you please
wait outside for me?
What will you two do now?
Yeah, I think I've seen enough.
[TOMITAKE]
So?
Pretty interesting, right?
[KEIICHI]
If I could do it over,
I would've stayed here
and kept watch with you.
[TOMITAKE laughs]
Did Ms. Takano manage
to keep her composure in there?
Well, I would be surprised.
In her eyes, those tools
are like hidden treasure.
[SHION laughs]
Yes, her excitement
was hard to miss.
[TAKANO]
Thanks for waiting.
My curiosity is
thoroughly satisfied.
And what I've seen casts all
those old stories and legends
in a whole new light.
[TOMITAKE]
Ms. Takano.
Huh?
[TOMITAKE] You didn't
take anything, did you?
[TAKANO]
I would never!
Surely you don't think
I'm that much of a child.
That's dealt with.
Now we should
probably start making
our way back down to the river.
It would be a real waste to come
to the cotton drifting festival
just to miss the main event.
Floating guts
down the river, huh?
[TOMITAKE]
Well, damn.
All the best shots of
the night happened down there
while we were up here.
Hey, the night's
not over yet, is it?
You can take my picture,
down by the riverside.
Right. Okay.
Hey guys, we're gonna
head down to the riverside.
Would you care to join us?
No, thanks.
I'm sure you two would like
some time to yourselves.
Have a good evening.
I think we might be
the ones imposing on them.
Shall we go, then, Jiro?
[TOMITAKE]
Mm.
Have a good night.
[SHION yawns]
I am exhausted.
Same here.
[SHION]
My sister and your friends
are probably looking for you.
You should go find them.
Yeah. I'll do that.
If Mion knew we were
running around together
the entire night,
she'd freak out on me.
So let's keep all of
this between us, okay?
Man, it feels weird when
you talk about it like that.
[SHION] I don't just mean
that you were with me.
Huh?
You and I were both
breaking the rules tonight.
We have to keep
quiet about all of it.
This is the night
of the festival.
Lord Oyashiro's watching.
After what we did,
the four of us should hope
he's not looking our way.
[gasps]
Heh, come on.
It was a joke!
[laughs]
Yeah, you got me!
Just blame it on Takano
and her creepy stories.
She honestly got me freaked out.
[SHION]
Well... Mion might be here soon.
See you around, Kei!
[RIKA]
Keiichi! We found you!
Oh. It's you, Rika.
What's going on?
Tracked ya down at last!
That just leaves Satoko.
I guess everybody got
split up tonight! Awooo...
Were you watching
my dance, Keiichi?
It was hard to see
the faces in the crowd.
Huh? Oh, yeah!
Watched the whole thing,
and I thought you
did a great job!
No mistakes at all!
Mii...
See, I told you
nobody in the crowd
would think you'd gotten
anything wrong, Rika!
[MION]
What about after that?
Were you able to
drift some cotton, Kei?
Oh, no.
[RENA] Wait, did you never
make it down to the river?
We gotta go right now,
Keiichi, it's almost over.
It's almost over!
Sorry, guys, my bad.
I've never done all this before.
I don't really know
the rules too well yet.
Yeah, that's fair.
Sorry. Let's go.
Kei, listen.
What's up?
[MION]
Have you seen Shion tonight?
Nope. Not once!
No, wait, I might've
seen her at some point,
but it was in the crowd
from pretty far away.
It might've been you, actually.
[MION]
We don't look exactly alike.
We don't even wear
the same clothes.
[KEIICHI]
Eh. Okay, that's a fair point.
[MION] So... you haven't seen
Takano or Tomitake either?
[gasps]
Eh. Uh...
Not at all. Neither one of 'em.
[car horn honks]
Hey.
Sorry about holding
you up like this.
What can I do
for you, Detective?
No need to make that face.
I just happened
to see you walking by
and wondered if you might
have any interesting information
you'd like to share with me.
Okay.
Though first, I've gotta say,
it's genuinely impressive how
quickly you seem to have gotten
in good with those Sonozaki
sisters, Mister Maebara.
Thank you, I guess?
[OOISHI]
You hear about their dad?
See, the Sonozaki clan
has run things around here
for quite some time now.
Those two are the
big boss's daughters.
What?
[OOISHI] Sorry,
I thought you already knew.
Dunno if you've
seen their house,
but it looks like something
straight out of a Yakuza movie.
High fences, barbed wire,
security cameras, the works.
[KEIICHI]
So what.
Is Mion the next head
of the family or something?
Yeah. She's set
to take the throne.
She could cut someone's
throat in broad daylight
and nobody outside of
town would ever hear of it.
She wouldn't kill anyone!
[OOISHI laughs]
Just giving an example.
I don't care about
her family's reputation.
Mion's always had my back
since I moved out here.
So if that's all you've got.
I'm gonna go home.
Mister Maebara.
I'll be happy to let you go
if you'll answer this
one question for me.
What's that?
Any chance you
would've crossed paths
with Jiro Tomitake and Miyo
Takano at some point tonight?
Huh?!
Not sure. Why do you ask?
Really? Not sure if
you've seen them or not?
Yeah. Sorry.
[indistinct radio chatter]
[OOISHI]
Hmm... Well, that's that.
I suppose there's no point
in keeping you here
any longer, is there?
Oh. One quick thing
before you head home:
I already know you saw 'em
both earlier tonight.
You and Shion snuck away
from the crowds
and had your own little
get‐together with those two.
By the big stone steps.
[gasps]
See you around, Mister Maebara.
[KEIICHI]
Why're you calling me so late?
[SHION]
I was worried whether my sister
actually bought your story.
She seemed to realize
pretty quick that I was lying
when I told Rika
I'd been watching her dance,
but I think
she believed the rest.
[SHION laughs]
You're such a good boy.
Oh, shut up, Shion.
[SHION]
Also, um,
there was one more thing
I wanted to ask you about.
What's that?
[SHION] So, at the
Watanagashi festival tonight,
the four of us all went inside
that storehouse, didn't we?
Then we walked down
to the stone steps.
We all parted ways at
that point, if I recall.
Yeah. Why're you asking?
[SHION]
After that,
did you see Takano
or Tomitake at all?
What happened?
Why does everyone
keep asking about them?
What about you, do you
know where they went?
[SHION]
Easy, Kei! Listen.
Those two have gone missing.
I was worried that
the curse would strike tonight,
and those two
would be the victims.
[KEIICHI]
What?
[SHION] The Sonozaki family
keeps close tabs
on police activity here.
From what we've been told,
they were most recently seen
in the volunteer parking lot.
Apparently, they took one of
the festival's mini‐trucks
and sped off.
Her car and his bike
are still out there.
It doesn't seem like they
planned this ahead of time.
Considering how much
of a hurry they were in
to get out of the village,
the police are assuming
they feared for their lives.
[KEIICHI]
What's that supposed to mean?
[SHION] It means they
may have been targeted
by Lord Oyashiro's curse.
And if that's what happened,
then you and I know why.
They encroached
on sacred ground,
and then they desecrated an
image of Lord Oyashiro himself.
Wait. So then,
does that mean we're next?
[SHION]
Yes.
[KEIICHI]
But why?
I mean of course it
was wrong of us
to trespass in the first place,
but we just looked!
Plus I didn't even wanna
see that crap to begin with!
That whole thing sucked!
I even told you going in there
seemed like a terrible idea!
All I wanted was to find a
spot where we could watch Rika!
But not you!
You dragged me into
that stupid storehouse
on the night of Watanagashi!
Now you call me in the
middle of the night for what?!
To tell me that
we're both screwed?!
[SHION]
I'm sorry.
I never expected it
to happen this way.
You were the one
who made it happen!
So what now?!
Fix this!
You messed it up,
so you need to fix it, right?!
Answer me!
[phone click]
No way.
So the curse is really
gonna come after us now?
Shion.
[RENA]
Hey! Morning, Keiichi!
Oh gosh, are you okay?
You've got bags under your eyes.
Yeah, I'm fine,
just had a rough night.
[RENA] You must've had too
much fun at the festival, huh?
Hey.
Good morning, Mion!
Uh‐oh. Did you manage to get
enough sleep after the festival?
Did you?
[MION]
Nnn...
I didn't get to bed
until around three.
I'm beat.
[KEIICHI] Three? Dude,
why would you stay up that late?
Does that mean that the mayor
still hasn't turned up yet?
[KEIICHI]
Hey, hold on a second.
What are you talking about?
[CHIE] Though
I'm sure at least some of you
have been told
about this already.
Mayor Kimiyoshi has gone missing
and hasn't been heard
from since yesterday.
The demons.
But it doesn't seem like
the curse happened this year.
[CHIE] If anybody here sees
the mayor somewhere around,
hurry and tell an
adult right away, okay?
And none of you
should walk home alone!
Everyone buddy up!
[GIRL A]
Heads up!
Why was it the mayor?
If the demons did it,
wouldn't they take me or Shion?
[RIKA]
Keiichi!
Is there a reason
you look so sad today?
Rika?
Please tell the truth.
Last night,
did you do something bad?
Keiichi, do you not remember
what happened last night?
Rika. You wanna
hear a kitty story?
Kitty story? Meow does it go?
One time, there were
four naughty kitties
hanging out at a shrine.
They snuck into
a sacred storehouse
on the night of a festival
when nobody was keeping guard.
But then, they all got scared
when they saw what was inside.
Then, they heard they might
be cursed just for looking.
Later, two of those kitties
disappeared in the night.
So please, Rika.
The two that're left.
What can they do now?
[RIKA laughs]
Why would you bother
with that flimsy pretext
when you're clearly
dying to confess?
[gasps]
[RIKA]
It's not an issue.
You have absolutely
nothing to worry about.
If only you'd thought
to worry a little bit sooner,
maybe it wouldn't
have come to this.
But the curse this year.
Your whole world.
You've already
thrown everything away.
Do you understand you
could have avoided all this
if you'd just stayed
and watched me dance?
But instead, you snuck off
to the toolshed.
Violated a sacred space.
On the night of
Watanagashi, at that.
How could you know?
[RIKA]
Usually they would have
already found Tomitake's
body by this point.
But yes, he and Takano are dead.
Not Shion.
She should still be alive.
Wait, what are
you even saying, Rika?
[RIKA]
And right now,
what happens to you
is anybody's guess.
I hope you like surprises.
[laughs]
Hey, Keiichi!
There's always better things
to do than sit around.
Grab the ball that just hit you.
You can come join our game.
Time for super deadly
sludge 'n' slaughter
electric razor wire
trench warfare dodgeball!
I guess.
[RIKA]
Keiichi?
Why don't you play with Satoko?
Next time:
Watadamashi‐hen, Part 4.